HSBC has “exaggerated” the “costs and risks” of spinning off its Asian operations, according to Chinese insurer Ping An, as the bank’s largest shareholder used a rare public statement to lay out how it should separate the business. Michael Huang, chair of Ping An Asset Management, said in a statement on Tuesday that although a split would involve initial costs, these should be “open-mindedly weighed against the benefits”.
The barns and milking sheds of Takis Kazanas’s farm are dwarfed by the majestic mountains that overlook the Thessalian Plain. Cattle have been raised on this green expanse of land in northern Greece for millennia, but now regulators in Brussels are discussing rules that will lead to farms like his being treated as industrial plants, akin to steel mills or chemical works.
Von Rohr is in charge of Deutsche’s retail unit, wealth management and its asset management. He is also the chair of Deutsche’s asset manager DWS, which under his watch got embroiled in a greenwashing scandal after its former head of ESG accused the company of overstating its green credentials. The bank is under investigation by the SEC, Frankfurt criminal prosecutors and Germany’s financial regulator BaFin over the allegations. DWS’s former chief executive Asoka Wöhrmann was ousted after police raided the asset manager’s offices last year.
Southwest Airlines briefly asked aviation regulators to stop departures across the US on Tuesday, another operational setback four months after the low-cost carrier inconvenienced millions of travellers over the holidays. The US Federal Aviation Administration said Southwest, the fourth largest airline in the US, asked it to “pause” planes scheduled for takeoff due to “a technical issue with one of their internal systems”. A little over 30 minutes later, the pause ended.
French container shipping giant CMA-CGM has made an initial offer to buy the logistics business of Bolloré Group at an enterprise value of €5bn as it continues an acquisition spree using windfall profits earned during the pandemic. The two groups said on Tuesday they would hold exclusive negotiations, while Bolloré Group added that it had given a deadline of May 8 for CMA-CGM to finalise its offer.
Canada’s inflation rate continued to moderate in March, signalling that monetary tightening is reining in price growth despite the central bank’s recent rate pause. Consumer prices rose 4.3 per cent from a year ago in March, following a 5.2 per cent annual increase in February, Statistics Canada said on Tuesday. That marked the smallest increase in the annual rate since August 2021 and matched analysts’ expectations.
Johnson & Johnson reported a first quarter loss on Tuesday as it booked a $6.9bn charge linked to its proposal to settle tens of thousands legal claims that its talcum powder caused cancer. The world’s largest healthcare products company reported a net loss of $68mn in the first quarter as it took a one-time charge related to the litigation
Goldman Sachs’ profit plunged 18 per cent for the first three months of the year, as the bank reported a $470mn loss from a sale of its consumers’ loans as well as a slowdown in investment banking activity. The Wall Street group on Tuesday said net income for the first quarter was $3.2bn, down from $3.8bn in the same period last year. That still beat analysts’ estimates for $3.06bn, according to consensus data compiled by Bloomberg.
The Russian-controlled International Investment Bank will move its headquarters back to Russia from Budapest after Hungary announced last week it would quit, signalling that US sanctions are having the desired effect.“IIB has exhausted the basis for further operations from its headquarters in Budapest and in the EU,” the bank said on Wednesday in a statement.The bank relocated to Budapest in 2019 as it sought to expand in the EU. But those plans have since fizzled.
Jaguar Land Rover will spend £15bn over five years on a suite of electric models as the UK carmaker attempts to catch up with larger rivals BMW and Mercedes-Benz on battery vehicles. Owned by Tata Motors, JLR will double its investment and launch seven electric cars, beginning with a fully electric Range Rover next year. It plans two more battery models in 2025, including a £100,000 four-door electric Jaguar sedan, as part of its relaunch plans.
Strong winds and hail storms across the US widened first-quarter pre-tax losses from natural catastrophes at Travelers, one of the biggest US insurers. The $535mn loss in the first three months compared with a loss of $160mn at the start of last year. Net income softened to $975mn in the quarter.
Morgan Stanley reported a 19 per cent year-on-year drop in its first quarter net income, as growth in its wealth management businesses failed to offset a slowdown in its investment banking and trading businesses. Net income applicable to shareholders totalled $2.98bn, or $1.70 per share, down from $3.7bn, or $2.02 per share, in the same period last year, Morgan Stanley said on Wednesday.
Citizens Financial Group reported deposits had dropped 4.7 per cent in the first quarter to $172bn and its net income of $511mn missed analysts’ expectations.The Rhode Island-based bank said deposits had been “broadly stable” during March, when the collapses of Silicon Valley Bank and two other lenders sparked concerns about the stability of US midsized and regional banks.
The UK has confirmed that Prime Minister Rishi Sunak’s wife has shares in childcare company Koru Kids, that could profit from government policy changes.An update to the register of ministerial interests published on Wednesday included details of Sunak’s financial assets.
Google has proposed opening up payment options in the UK so app developers can choose to offer alternatives following concerns from regulators over competition. Developers would be able to break away from the US tech group’s billing system in the Google Play app and use alternatives to process payments, the Competition and Markets Authority said on Wednesday.
UK private residential rents rose in the year to March for the 20th successive month as demand strengthened, the Office for National Statistics said on Wednesday. Private rents increased 4.9 per cent, accelerating from 4.8 per cent in the previous month. In London they climbed 4.8 per cent year on year, above the England average of 4.6 per cent and the capital’s highest rate since December 2012.
Shares in CMOC Group surged after the Chinese mining company and its Congolese partner struck a deal to resume sales from one of the world’s biggest copper and cobalt mines, which could add pressure to prices amid a supply boom.Tenke Fungurume, the world’s second-largest cobalt mine in the Democratic Republic of Congo and owned by CMOC, has been stockpiling material since July after a royalties dispute with state-owned partner Gécamines.
India has overtaken China as the world’s most populous country, according to UN data released on Wednesday, marking a historic crossover moment for the two Asian neighbours and geopolitical rivals. According to the UN’s Population Dashboard, India’s population has exceeded 1.428bn, surpassing China’s more than 1.425bn.
Heathrow airport has launched an appeal against the UK aviation regulator’s decision to force the London hub airport to cut its landing fees. The airport said the Civil Aviation Authority’s ruling in March that landing charges should fall from £31.57 per passenger to £25.43 from next year will “undermine investment”.
European stocks slipped on Wednesday ahead of the latest eurozone inflation figures and a fresh batch of US corporate earnings, with investors looking for signs of slowing growth and the impact of higher interest rates. The region-wide Stoxx 600 fell 0.2 per cent, as did Germany’s Dax while France’s Cac 40 was steady.
The German government has ordered 143 of its Puma tanks to be refurbished, after an incident in December when 18 malfunctioned during a military drill. Rheinmetall said on Wednesday that a joint venture between it and Krauss-Maffei Wegmann had been asked to retrofit the tanks by 2029, at a price tag of €770mn.
Sterling strengthened against the dollar after fresh economic data showed UK inflation had slowed less than expected in March. The pound was up 0.3 per cent against the dollar at $1.24 in early trading on Wednesday. It fell 0.4 per cent against the euro to £0.87. 
Glencore has called on the board of Teck Resources to engage with it to discuss a $23bn takeover offer, adding that it is willing to improve that proposal if it does. “Glencore has never stated that its proposal is ‘best and final’,” Gary Nagle, chief executive of the Swiss commodities group, said in a letter to Teck shareholders 0n Wednesday.
Liontrust booked £4.8bn of net annual outflows as weak investor sentiment continued to weigh on UK fund managers, but said profit for the coming year would exceed market expectations. The FTSE 250 group — which on Tuesday confirmed it was in talks with Swiss asset manager GAM about a potential acquisition — said assets under management had dropped to £31.4bn at the end of March, a quarter-on-quarter decrease of 3.6 per cent. Profit before tax for the financial year will be above £86mn, it added.
UK inflation remained in double digits in March with a 10.1 per cent annual rate, raising the chances of further interest rate increases from the Bank of England. Consumer price inflation had been 10.4 per cent in February and was expected to drop to 9.8 per cent last month.